## Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

This repository contains the script for creating a tidy data set, according to the specifications in the Coursera Getting and Cleaning Data Course project.
The repository also contains the codebook for the tidy data set generated by the script.

### run_analysis.R

This script performs the analysis as specified in the project and creates the tidy data set.
The script first loads the data, and then performs the following steps:

1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Adds columns for the subject and activity names. The data for the subject is taken from the subject_test.txt and subject_train.txt files. The data for the activities is taken from the y_test.txt and y_train.txt files. The script replaces the activity codes with the descriptive activity names taken from the file activity_labels.txt.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
6. Writes the new tidy data set into a file names tidy.txt

Note: The script extracts features with names that include "mean()" or "std()" at the end. It is unclear from the project instructions if features that include "mean" without paranthesis should be included as well, so I have chosen to ignore those.

### Running the script

Before running the script, download the data from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip.
Unzip the zip file, and make sure that your R working directory is the directory where you extracted the data.
